>> Brain Holt: Searching for
elements in an array.
What we're gonna do here is we're gonna
have some sort of item that we're looking
for in some group, some array, right?
There's kind of two strategies
that we can look at doing this.
The first is literally a while loop
where you're going through and
checking is it this item, is it this item,
is it this item, is it this item?
Eventually, that question is
gonna either be yes or no.
If it's never yes,
then you never found it.
If it is yes,
then you just reach for that item.
This is called a linear search,
the Big O of this would be N, right?
Because potentially you could
go through every item and
it would not be there or
it could be the first item.
So it has a really random or full
distribution of best case and worse case.
If there is some sort
of order to the array,
then you can do something called
binary search which is log n which
means it's much,
much more efficient than just n.
So what you do is you're gonna do it more
or less like you do a phone book, right?
You're gonna open the middle and
you'll say, is it n, right, or is it n?
And then you're gonna say no and so,
you're gonna start bifurcating it, or
dividing it in half until eventually,
you're gonna land on the item
that you were looking for.
All right, so
I kind of diagrammed it out here.
If you are searching for 12, you are gonna
start in the middle and say is it 19?
No, is it ten?
No, is it 12?
Yes, right, so
you just kind of keep going back.
Just adding half or
subtracting half until eventually you land
on the item that you are looking for.
>> Brain Holt: So let's just go ahead and
do an exercise real quick.
And give you an array, the first one,
the linear search array,
it's gonna be in no order or whatsoever.
And I want you to just go through and
find the item that you're looking for
and return it.
>> Brain Holt: Excuse me, for
the second one for binary search,
you're going to go through and
it is an ordered list and
you're gonna do a binary search to find
which item that you're looking for.
So I'll give you a second to do that,
the first one takes about 5 lines of code.
The second one takes maybe about
15 lines of code to accomplish.